# Prednaska 3

### 1. Translate the following relational algebra query into SQL:

```SQL
SELECT cName, enr // do not need distinct, because cName is a key
FROM College
WHERE state='CA'
```

### 2. Translate the following relational algebra query into SQL:

```SQL
SELECT DISTINCT sID
FROM College JOIN Apply
WHERE state='CA'
```

### 3. Translate the following SQL query into relational algebra, using only the operators σ, π, and ×

The query to translate:

```SQL
SELECT DISTINCT cName
FROM Student, Apply
WHERE Student.sID = Apply.sID AND GPA=4.0 AND decision='R'
```

This is an example of `CANONICAL TRANSLATION`

Relational algebra:

```
π_cName(σ_Student.sID=Apply.sID_AND_GPA=4.0_AND_decision='R'(Student × Apply))
```

### 4. Which of the following expressions finds the IDs of all students such that some college

and the student have the same name?

- A. πsID(College ⋊⋉ Student) X - different attribute names
- B. πsID(σcN ame=sName(College × Student))
- C. πsID(πcN ameCollege ⋊⋉ πcName(σsName=cNameStudent)) - not a valid query

The answer is B

### 5. Write a relational algebra query that finds the student IDs of all students who have applied to Berkeley, but who were not accepted.

_!!! NEGATION OPERATOR !!!_

```
π_sID(cName='Berkeley'_AND_decision!='A'(Apply))
```

### 6. Can you write a relational algebra query that finds the student IDs of all students who

have NOT applied to Berkeley, using only the operators σ, π, and ×?

We can not do it without negation operator!

- we could write it using the difference `\` operator

### 7. Which of the following expressions does NOT return the names and GPAs of students with HS > 1000 who applied to CS and were rejected?

// TODO

### 8. Suppose relation Student has 20 tuples. What is the minimum and maximum number of tuples in the result of this expression:

- A. minimum = 0, maximum = 400 -> NO, we can not get 0 - they are the same tables -> there are same values -> natural join will work on them
- B. minimum = 20, maximum = 20
- `C. minimum = 20, maximum = 400` -> yes, if all GPA and HS were the same, there would be `400` tuples
- D. minimum = 40, maximum = 40

### 9. Suppose relations College, Student, and Apply have 5, 20, and 50 tuples in them respectively. Recall that cName is a key for College. Do not assume that sName is a key for Student. However, assume that the college names in Apply also appear in College. What is the minimum and maximum number of tuples in the result of this expression:

`πcNameCollege ∪ ρcName(πsN ameStudent) ∪ πcNameApply`

- | College | = 5
- | Student | = 20
- | Apply | = 50

- A. minimum = 5, maximum = 25 - Yes - all students and colleges can have unique names (WE ARE WORKING WITH SETS)
- B. minimum = 5, maximum = 75 - No
- C. minimum = 25, maximum = 45 - No
- D. minimum = 75, maximum = 75 - No
