# Prednaska 4

1. What is the task of the query optimizer in a database system

Defining a plan to efficiently answer a query

2. What is the output of the query optimizer?

A plan that tells you how a query should be executed efficiently

3. What kind of information do you think is useful to the query optimizer?

Distribution of attribute values
Record count for each table
The available size of the main memory (“buffers” in database terms)

4. What is the main task of the rule-based optimizer?

To apply certain pre-defined rules that could optimize the query plan

5. Given two queries Q1 and Q2. Assume a rule-based optimizer is called on Q1 and then
   Q2. The result of the calls may lead to different plans, even though

Q1 is semantically equivalent to Q2, i.e. it returns the same set of results for
any instance of the database that has the same schema.

6. Could the rule-based optimizer actually have a negative impact on query performance,
   rather than a positive one?

Yes

7. When performing a join operation in a relational database management system, does
   the order of the operands have anyimpact on the performance of the join in general?

Yes

8. When the query optimizer is trying to decide how to perform a join operation, what
   kind of operation fits better?

Cost-based optimization

9. You are given the following SQL query:

```
SELECT DISTINCT A.b, B.c, C.d, D.e
FROM A, B, C, D
WHERE A.x=B.x AND A.a<24 AND A.c=C.d AND B.d=D.b
AND D.a>24 AND C.d=D.c AND C.b>45 AND B.x=23
```

Write down the canonical translation of this query into relational algebra.
Use rule-based optimization to improve the logical plan. Explain what you did and draw the new plan as a relational algebra tree.

```
          PROJECT
         /
        SELECT
       /
      x
     /\
    x  D
   /\
  x  C
 /\
A  B
```

The improvement is vertical plan with selections.

10. What is the rough idea of a cost-based query optimizer?

Explore the search space to obtain a good way of performing the given opera-
tion under a given cost model.

11. What is the number of possible left-deep plans for n input relations?

`n!`
