# Prednaska 7

1. The book mentions a number of patterns for chain folding. One says: If multiple Map phases are adjacent, merge them into one phase. Complete the following sketches of how this pattern may be applied:

NOTE: TOHLE BUDE DULEZITE V MILESTONE4 -> nejlepsi je vybrat si Chain Folding jako moji optimalizaci pro ukol 4

A. `(A) -> Map: [Mfun1, Mfun2] -> (B)`

B. `(A) -> Map: [Mfun1, Mfun2], Reduce: [Rfun2] -> (B)`

1. Another pattern says: If a job ends with a Map phase (combined or otherwise), push that phase into the Reducer right before it. Complete the following sketch of how this pattern may be applied:

`(A) ->  Map: [Mfun1], Reduce: [Rfun2, Mfun2] -> (B)`

3. What are the benefits of applying these patterns?

- less I/O
- fewer tasks started

4. We consider the following SQL query.

Tohle bude urcite na zkousce (cely rozbor):
Mozna taky bude na zkousce ten Luigi code (implementace reduce a map funkci do kostry)

```SQL
SELECT DISTINCT p.name
FROM Eats e, Person p
WHERE e.name = p.name AND p.age <= 18
```

Perform the following steps:

1. Canonical translation into relational algebra, just like in Milestone 1.

- `\project_{p.name} (\select_{e.name = p.name AND p.age <= 18} ((\rename_{p} Person) \cross (rename_{e} Eat)) )`

2. Logical optimization, just like in Milestone 2: Selection pushing and joins.

- `\project_{p.name} (\select_{e.name = p.name} ((\select_{p.age <= 18} \rename_{p} Person) \cross (rename_{e} Eat)) )`

3. Translation into a physical query plan with MapReduce-based operators, like in Milestone 3. Use the graphical notation familiar from questions 1 and 2 above.

`(Eats) -> Map: [rename]`
`(Person) -> Map: [rename] -> Map: [select age]`

Pak obe vetve dam do tohoto MapReduce jobu:

`-> [Reduce:[M \join_{e.name=p.name}], Map:[M \join_{e.name=p.name}]] -> [Reduce:[M \project_{p.name}], Map:[M \project_{p.name}}]] -> output`

4. Chain folding according to the patterns discussed earlier.

Mergneme vsechny specificke map jobs pro `Person` a `Eats` do toho prvniho mapreduce jobu

`Eats, Person -> [Map: [if input is from Eats: [M \join e.name = p.name] else: [select age, M \join e.name = p.name]], Reduce: [M \join e.name = p.name]]`

5. Compare the number of tuples written into HDFS when evaluating the physical query plans before and after chain folding. Discuss briefly.

6. Can the physical plan be folded any further?

Yes

5. We consider the following SQL query:

```SQL
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT gender, age, count(*) as count
    FROM Person
    GROUP BY gender, age) T
WHERE T.count > 1
```
